.TH LIBRED_INIT_COLOUR 3 LIBRED
.SH NAME
libred_init_colour \- Prepare for use of libred_get_colour(3)
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
#include <libred.h>

int \fBlibred_init_colour\fP(void);
.fi
.PP
Link with
.IR -lred .
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B libred_init_colour
open a file descriptor, without returning it, to the colour
temperature lookup table, and stores the file descriptor to
.BR libred_fd .
It is necessary to call this function before the first call to
.BR libred_get_colour (3).
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
Upon successful completion, the function returns 0. On failure,
the function returns -1 and sets
.B errno
appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
The function may fail for any reason specified for
.BR open (3),
and set the value of
.B errno
to the same values.
.B errno
is always set to 0 on success.
.SH "FUTURE DIRECTIONS"
It is possible that the behaviour is changed to loading the
colour temperature lookup table rather than just open a
file descriptor to it.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR libred.h (0),
.BR libred (7),
.BR libred_get_colour (3),
.BR libred_term_colour (3)
.SH LICENSE
Copyright \(co 2016  Mattias Andrée
.br
License GPLv3+: GNU GPL version 3 or later <http://gnu.org/licenses/gpl.html>.
.br
This is free software: you are free to change and redistribute it.
.br
There is NO WARRANTY, to the extent permitted by law.
.PP
Copying and distribution of this manual, with or without modification,
are permitted in any medium without royalty provided the copyright
notice and this notice are preserved.  This file is offered as-is,
without any warranty.
.SH BUGS
Please report bugs to <https://github.com/maandree/libred/issues>
or to <maandree@member.fsf.org>.

